
# Chord-DHT

Chord DHT is a distributed hash table protocol that allows efficient storage and retrieval of key-value pairs in a peer-to-peer network. Implementing the Chord DHT in C++ involves designing and implementing the various components of the protocol, such as the finger table, successor list, and routing algorithm.The hash for the node and key is generated by using the SHA-1 algorithm.




## File Description

### nodeDht.cpp

This C++ file NodeDht represents a node in the DHT network, and the code provides various methods to interact with the DHT, such as setting the successor and predecessor nodes, getting the successor and predecessor nodes, getting the finger table, storing and retrieving key-value pairs, and updating the successor list.

### utill.cpp

This C++ file consist of helper functions which are used by the file nodeDht.cpp for calculating the finger table or to fetch the table when a node leaves the ring.

### port.cpp

This is a C++ implementation of a Socket and Port class. The class provides methods to specify a port number for the server, check if a port is in use, change the port number, get the IP address, get the port number, get the socket file descriptor, and close the socket.

### functions.cpp

In this C++ implementation, nodes are created and joined in a ring structure to distribute keys and values.
The code basically includes four functions: put(), get(), create(), and join().

### intit.cpp

The function initializes a NodeDht object, which represents the current node in the DHT. It then opens a socket on the node for listening to other nodes.
The function then enters a loop where it reads input commands from the user and executes the corresponding DHT operation. The commands are parsed and the corresponding DHT operations are executed by calling the functions create(), printState(), leave(), printKeys(), showHelp(), get(), join(), put(), which are defined in other source files.

### header.h 

This file consist of header files that need to be included in the c++ files

### Reference

https://pdos.csail.mit.edu/papers/ton:chord/paper-ton.pdf
https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~dga/15-744/S07/lectures/16-dht.pdf
